# Interface of event store (backend)

* Status: accepted

## Context and Problem Statement

[[ADR-0004](0004-event-structure-11-01-2021.md)] defines structure of events. Open is the interface of the event store, i.e. the entity used by frontends to store and query events.

## Decision Drivers

* Enable typical patterns within event sourcing (separate by topics, snapshots in frontend)
* Store only object events, i.e. no need to enable storing and processing generic events only

## Decision Outcome

Option 1, because it is a simple start. Issues like topics or performance don't block at this time and option 2 would address this.

## Pros and Cons of the Options
### Option 1: Topics are a side-note in the API
The backend provides the following endpoints
* /objectEvents : Endpoint providing a [EventSource for server-sent events](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Server-sent_events/Using_server-sent_events)
* /objectEvent  : Endpoint providing a simple REST interface for storing events / querying them

The REST interface for storing an objectEvent
* validates the objectEvent prior to persisting it,
* sets the time and id of the objectEvent prior to persisting it,
* persists it and
* provides the event as a server-sent event

The REST interface for querying objectEvents requires 
* topic GUID (mandatory)
Optionally, providing parameter object or objectType restricts the returned set of events further.

Bad, because topics are only represented as a GUID and no further information, e.g. a descriptive name, can be stored for them. Subscribers cannot limit their subscription to specific topics.

### Option 2: API mirrors the structure provided by topics
Same as option 1, but instead of requiring topics as a mandatory parameter, the API enforce this by endpoints for topics. For example, the topmost endpoint could be a topic
* /topic$id/objectEvents
* /topic$id/objectEvent
This would also allow to subscribe to specific topics only and provide a way to create and delete topic as well as add information to topics. 

Bad, because this add scomplexity and required effort with no benefit at this time. However, the API can evolve into this option.

## Links 
* [Example for subscribing to server-sent events in Angular](https://medium.com/@chrisbautistaaa/server-sent-events-in-angular-node-908830cc29aa)
